Final Project Write Up:

In this final project I conducted real estate analysis for properties in New York City and Boston. The reason I decided to do this project was because of my interest in real estate and real estate investing. I wanted to learn more about how investors analyze markets and specific properties. However, I also wanted this to be a tool for someone trying to analyze these markets as well. Therefore, I made the plots interactive to allow anyone that uses the site to see the properties in the analysis and do some analysis themselves. 

The work done in this project relates to many of the topics that were covered in the first half of this course. First, the interactivity of many of the plots in this course. I used plotlty to create plots where the address of the properties would appear when a user hovered over a point. Additionally, I used a lot of mutate functions to create new variables like ROI, down return, mortgage calculations, and projected rental incomes. Also, in the general analysis for Boston and New York City I used the section on expressing uncertainty to show the variability in many of the statistics for both cities. In this section I used the grammar of graphics section of the course to order the borough or property type in order of their means. This allows viewers of the site to easily read and interpret the plots. I added colors by labels so that viewers could also identify which borough or property type was being represented by each bar or box plot. Finally, I used the mapping data section to create an interactive map of the Boston properties data set. This allows users to zoom in on the city and locate properties and find information on the address, price, and property type. 

